so welcome back to natural language
processing the next segment is going to
be about extracting collocations from
text so collocations are phrases that
have dictionary definitions of their own
and that those definitions are different
from the meaning of the individual words
for example if we say that somebody
kicked the bucket that doesn't mean that
the person actually literally kicked the
bucket that just means that the person
has died so this is a famous saying by
first from 1935 that says you should not
award by the company that it keeps so
what that means is that words have
meanings that depend on the words that
surround them so in general phrases have
many different uses and many different
categories so here some examples a dead
end is a street that doesn't have an
exit it's not somebody who has died
strong team the example here is to
indicate that even though the word
strong in the word par for synonyms we
don't say powerful T but we always say
strong T so those two words form a
collocation that is different from the
meaning of the individual words again
names of people and names of diseases
are other examples of such phrases so
cool locations have different properties
they're commonly used
they're not just one-time occurrences
they're not general syntactic or
semantic rules about them and they're
very important for the non-native
speakers when they learn a language
fluently a collocation acquisition or
learning of collocation from text is
very important for natural language
processing applications in things like
question answering in machine
translation they're different there's
not a common agreement on what exactly
forms a collocation so I'm going to try
to give you some examples here of
different lottery word sequences and
what makes them different so one of
those categories is called idioms second
one is called three word combinations
and the third one is called collocations
so here are some examples of those
idiomatic expressions include things
like to kick the bucket dead end and to
catch up collocations include things
that consist in this case of common
words which when combined have a meaning
that
slightly different from the meaning of
the individual words so for example to
trade actively a table of contents or
terminology like orthogonal projection
and the third category is just three
word combinations we have again common
words but combining them together is
very compositional and it doesn't convey
any special meaning to the phrase for
example to take the bus just means
there's a bus and you take it and you go
somewhere at the end of the road or to
buy a house so we're not interested in
free word combinations we are mostly
interested in idioms and collocations
and in particular collocations so what
are some properties of those so they're
arbitrary so substitutions are not
usually allowed for example we can say
to make an effort but we cannot say to
make an exertion
even though effort and exertions are
similar we can say running commentary
but we cannot say running discussion
then we can say commit treason but we
cannot say commit treachery
those are collocations our language and
dialect specific so if we go from one
language to another will notice that the
collocations don't necessarily get
translated by translating the individual
words so for example in French to say to
direct traffic we say a wriggly last
year colección which is something like
regulate traffic in other languages for
example Russian or German a
serbo-croatian it's actually the word
regulate that is used for directing
traffic another example is in American
English people say to set the table or
to make a decision
whereas in British English people say
mostly to lay the table and to take a
decision
here's one more example in French
similar this hour means to wreak havoc
and the actual translation is to sort
this array so su-mei means to solve so
collocations are common in technical
language and they are incorrect in
context so there are many uses for
collocations they can be used for
example for this obligation if we have
some ambiguous word like the word bank
if we have another word near it for
example loan or river as part of a
collocation we should be able to
disambiguate the word bank very easily
they're also very useful for translation
and also for text generation so
grammatically speaking they're multiple
types of collocations some of them are
grammatical which includes things like
phrasal verbs for example come to put on
afraid that fond of and so on and
prepositional phrases like by accident
and so on
they can also be semantic but only
certain synonyms are allowed and the
others that are very flexible in terms
of the physical location of the words at
for them so for example we can say find
something by chance and those words
don't have to be necessarily near each
other they can be an intermediate set of
words in between so find followed by an
entire clause by chance so one important
distinction in collocation analysis is
between the so called base and the
co-locate err so the base is defined to
be what bears most of the meaning of the
collocation so writers think of the base
first and foreign language speakers
search for an expression in the
dictionary based on the base for
decoding or understanding purposes it's
actually more appropriate to store the
collocation under the collar cater so
here's some examples of bases and Kolo
caters you can have nouns and verbs I
just set the table the base here is the
noun table and the Co locator is the
verb noun an adjective the basis would
be the noun and the Co locator is the
adjective for cases where you have
adverbs and prepositions the adverb and
the preposition are always the Colo
caters so how do we extract collocations
automatically from text do we just take
the most common by grams and perhaps try
grams and four grams it turns out that
this is not the right approach because
very often does correspond to just three
word combinations what if we just doped
some of the function words well that
turns out to not give us any additional
mileage one other possibility is to look
of part of speech sequences but as I
said before our collocations are fairly
arbitrary and there is no reliable way
to extract them based on part of speech
sequences okay so let's look at some
techniques for extracting collocations
that work so one of the most common
techniques is based on
information just to remind you the
mutual formation between two
randomvariables
i is the log of the ratio of the joint
probability divided by the product of
the individual probabilities so for
example larger values of I are means
that the collocation is stronger and if
the bitch information is equal to zero
that means that there is no correlation
between the two words and they don't
form a collocation and if the value of
the mutual information is negative that
means that those words actually less
likely to appear together and you would
expect by chance okay so one of the
techniques that is used to extract
collocation is based on the so called yo
coefficient which is very simple to
compute suppose that we have two words W
and X I'm going to use the following
notation capital Dublin capital X means
that those particular words appear in
the given background and little Dublin
literary means that those words don't
appear so a is the frequency of pairs
that involve both words B is the
frequency of pairs or backgrounds that
involve just one of the words C's the
other one and these neither so the U
coefficient is computed by taking the
diagonal of this contingency matrix ad
minus BC divided by the sum of the same
numbers ad plus BC and this gives us
numbers in the range again from minus 1
to plus 1 where 1 indicates a very
strong collocation let's look at an
example now so in the top left corner of
the spreadsheet we have a equals 800 so
those are the cases where both words
appear then we have B and C 160 180 and
finally D equals 80s are the cases where
none of the words appear and then we can
compute their formula and we get a score
of 0.38 which is mildly strong
collocation so here's an example from
the Hansard corpus of Canadian
parliamentary proceedings that includes
both French and English texts a
technique like this was used to extract
collocations that translate from one of
the languages to the other so the word
prime as in Prime Minister was
translated as the following words in
French based on the material
formation in sentences that are aligned
between the two languages
one other thing to think about is
whether collocation is flexible or rigid
so here's an example from a paper by
Frank's Marja P plus one means that the
second one of the collocation appears
exactly after the first one the plus two
means that it appears two words later p+
means that it appears two words later
and so on P minus one means that it
appears right before as you can see in
this case we have a pair of words that
appear together 8000 31 times and in
most of those cases 7900 they appear
right next to each other but there are
still some cases where they appear with
a small number of words in between so
this would be an example of a fairly
rigid collocation which only has a few
examples where it doesn't work but there
are cases where you can have even more
rigid collocations where all of the
numbers would be at P minus 1 or P plus
1 so this is the pair of free and trait
so extract with the system developed by
Frank's Marja and it was able to extract
collocations like the Dow Jones
Industrial Average or flexible
collocations like the nicest composite
index of all it's listed common stocks
fell then some number to some other
number now let's see how we can
translate collocations so as I mentioned
before translating collocations is not
trivial you don't want to translate them
one word at a time
here's an example brush up a lesson in
French gets translated as a hood pass a
English or pass a means to go over bring
about which is an expression in English
that written back as a phrasal verb in
Russian is translated as a single word
as was just react and some examples from
the Hansard corpus late-spring
which translate as fan du pont au which
means end of spring and atlantic canada
opportunities agency gets translated as
Zhang's diplomacy or economy cue canada
atlantic which is slightly different
translations of economic promotion of
atlantic canada so here some examples
for web
sites that contain physical locations
and English language idioms and there's
a large website that includes many more
of those called EDM side comm so this
concludes the section on collocation
extraction